Data visualization is the practice of representing data graphically to represent information in a simple manner. Data visualization helps to understand patterns and relationships that exist in the data. There are hundreds of tools to make visualizations from data.

EXAMPLE - 

Let's explore the role of data visualization and the tools which can be used for visualization, with the help of a case study. Imagine a small town library called Bookworm. This library is more than just a repository of books. It's a vital part of the community. Apart from the knowledge house of the town, Bookworm also hosts story arts for the kids, education sessions for adults, and cultural events for all ages. Bookworm's mission is to provide an enriching and inclusive experience for its patrons. To support its endeavors, the library has a huge pile of raw data, records of book loans, user registrations, details, user demographics, event attendance figures, etc.

However, despite having this wealth of information, the staff at Bookworm often find themselves somewhat in the dark when it comes to making strategic decisions for the library's future. They grapple with questions such as, what is the age distribution of library users in the community? How do the attendance trends differ for different events? Example, story hours, educational sessions, cultural events? Are there any particular types of events that consistently attract larger audiences compared to others? The library has all the raw data at hand, but without a proper way to analyze it, they are like sailors lost at sea, surrounded by water, but with no way to drink. Understanding this, the staff at Bookworm began to search for solutions to make sense of the vast data they had. They had specific requirements with respect to tools which can help them get to the analysis. Bookworm sought a tool that would allow seamless sharing of reports and findings with other staff members. Recognizing the need for user-friendly functionality, Bookworm designed a tool that offered their staff a simple drag and drop feature. 

Bookworm understood that their data would come in various formats. Therefore, they require a tool capable of importing a wide range of datasets. Bookworm wanted to use a tool that is actively improved with regular updates. To fulfill these requirements, they explored popular tools such as Python and SQL. But soon realized that these options require coding and do not have a drag and drop interface. Knowing that they need a more intuitive solution that can communicate insights effortlessly, they started exploring drag and drop data visualization tools. They came across several options which provided a drag and drop interface, such as Tableau, QlikView, Google Data Studio, Domo, and Power BI. Many of these tools met their requirements, so the next step was to narrow down to the best visualization tool that would suffice their requirements. They referred to Gartner's Magic Quadrant for analytics and business intelligence to choose the best tool, where Power BI was recognized as the leader for its completeness of vision and ability to execute. Based on this, Bookworm decided to use Power BI as their visualization tool. By visualizing the data in a way that was easy to understand, they were able to identify trends and patterns that were previously hidden. For instance, visualizing the book loan data revealed that young adult novels are the most frequently borrowed or that books by local authors have high demand. This could encourage the library to invest more in those types of books or host events featuring local authors. Similarly, visualizing user demographics showed that a significant percentage of users are senior citizens who frequent the library in the mornings. This could lead to scheduling events tailored for them during that time. This is not just a single local library's success story. 

The power of data visualization using tools like Power BI can be harnessed by any organization, big or small. Be it a local library, a school, a local government office, or a multinational cooperation. Using data visualization tool can unearth hidden patterns and trends in any dataset, ultimately, improving decision-making and optimizing resources. After completing this course, you too can help organization in optimizing their resources and in making data-based decisions using the insights derived from Power BI. You will set out on a journey to discover the actual possibilities of data during this course. By the end of this course, you'll be able to identify key features and functionalities of Power BI, select and use relevant charts for appropriate data problems, use Power BI to connect diverse data formats, and make visualizations ready. Create advanced visualization on Power BI using DAX. Communicate key insights from business problems using reports and dashboards.